
       Most language is spoken language, and most words, once they are
 uttered, vanish forever into the air.  But such is not the case with language
 spoken during courtroom trials, for there exists an army of courtroom
 reporters whose job it is to take down and preserve every statement made
 during the proceedings. Mary Louise Gilman, the venerable editor of the
 National Shorthand Reporter has collected many  of the more hilarious
 courtroom bloopers in two books - Humor in the Court (1977) and More Humor in
 the Court, published a few months ago.
 
       From Mrs. Gilman's two volumes, here are some favorite
       transquips, all recorded by America's keepers of the word:

          What is your brother-in-law's name?
          Borofkin.
          What's his first name?
          I can't remember.
          He's been your brother-in-law for years, and you can't remember
       his first
       name?
          No.  I tell you I'm too excited. (Rising from the witness chair
       and pointing to Mr. Borofkin.) Nathan, for God's sake, tell them your
       first name!

          Did you ever stay all night with this man in New York?
          I refuse to answer that question.
          Did you ever stay all night with this man in Chicago?
          I refuse to answer that question.
          Did you ever stay all night with this man in Miami?
          No.

          What is your name?
          Ernestine McDowell.
          And what is your marital status?
          Fair.
 
          Are you married?
          No, I'm divorced.
          And what did your husband do before you divorced him?
          A lot of things I didn't know about.
 
          How did you happen to go to Dr. Cherney?
          Well, a gal down the road had had several of her children by Dr.
          Cherney, and said he was really good.
 
          Do you know how far pregnant you are right now?
          I will be three months November 8th.
          Apparently then, the date of conception was August 8th?
          Yes.
          What were you and your husband doing at that time?
 
          Doctor, how many autopsies have you peformed on dead people?
          All my autopsies have been performed on dead people.
 
          Were you aquainted with the deceased?
          Yes, sir.
          Before or after he died?
 
          Did he pick the dog up by the ears?
          No.
          What was he doing with the dog's ears?
          Picking them up in the air.
          Where was the dog at this time?
          Attached to the ears.
 
          When he went, had you gone and had she, if she wanted to and were
       able, for the time being excluding all the restraints on her not to go, gone
       also, would he have brought you, meaning you and she, with him to the station?
       MR. BROOKS: Objection. That question should be taken out and shot.
 
          And lastly, Gary, all your responses must be oral.  O.K.? What
       school do you go to?
          Oral.
          How old are you?
          Oral.
 
         What is your relationship with the plaintiff?
         She is my daughter.
         Was she your daughter on February 13, 1979?
 
         ...and what did he do then?
         He came home, and next morning he was dead.
         So when he woke up the next morning he was dead?
 
         Do you drink when you're on duty?
         I don't drink when I'm on duty, unless I come on duty drunk.
 
         ...any suggestions as to what prevented this from being a murder
       trial
       instead of an attempted murder trial?
         The victim lived.
 
         Are you sexually active?
         No, I just lie there.
 
         Are you qualified to give a urine sample?
         Yes, I have been since early childhood.
 
         What is the meaning of sperm being present?
         It indicates intercourse.
         Male sperm?
         That is the only kind I know.
 
         (Showing man picture.) That's you?
         Yes, sir.
         And you were present when the picture was taken, right?
 
         Was that the same nose you broke as a child?
         I have only one, you know.
